# Take back your data!

Bring Your Own Data and Algorithms (BYODA) is a new and open platform on which you can host your data, such as who you are following and what videos you have liked, in your own data pod and where you can grant selective access to that data to the social media services that you are using.
As you and other people like you decide what access social media services have to your data, there is a fundamental shift in the balance of power from social media companies to you. For example, you don't have to ask services to show what data they have on you or have to ask these services to delete some or all of this data as you will be able to see and remove this data in your data pod yourself. 

BYODA will also provide a software development kit for building social media services. This will make it easier and quicker to develop new services or update existing services. As you can decide to allow a new service access to some or all of the data you have stored for other services, it becomes easier for new social media services to reach critical mass and benefit from the 'network effect'. Making it easier for new social media services to get started will increase competition in the social media market, reducing the power that the big social media platforms have in our society.
Today, social media services run their proprietary algorithms that push content to you to maximize the number of ads they can make you watch. With BYODA, you will be able to select an algorithm from a list of available open-source and propriety algorithms to run in your pod that you have found is best at selecting the content that you want you to consume.

I came up with the idea of BYODA after watching the documentary 'The Social Dilemma' on the dangerous human impact of social networking. I believe a fundamental redesign is required of how social media services are delivered in order to reduce the power the top social media companies have and reduce their negative impact on our society. This project is not just about software development and adoption by people like you. To force the dominant social media services to adopt this model, I believe legislation will need to be enacted. BYODA is not a quick-fix but more of a marathon and will need all the support it can get.

If you'd like to know more, visit the [Wiki](https://github.com/StevenHessing/byoda/wiki) of this project and if you are a software developer, have a look at the development of the [reference implementation](https://github.com/StevenHessing/byoda-python)
